1.  Design must efficiently unclog storm drain by removing at least 50% of surface blockage, which will in turn prevent severe flooding.*  
● Design must prevent the flooding from happening rather than filtering water and collecting debris during floods; this is a real problem indicated by the team’s 3 scholarly articles.
● The solution must provide stronger relief, otherwise it is not a solution to the problem statement. According to research done during the problem statement development, 
clogged storm drain grates reduce drainage efficiency by at least 24.6% with 50% surface blockage and significantly more with increased blockage. 

2. The design will decrease the time it takes for emergency vehicles to pass  through roads, so it will result in a regular response time with a 5-10 minute buffer period.*
The solution must make it easier for emergency responders to arrive at their destination, otherwise it is not a solution to the problem statement. A judge recommended we add this.
The response time must be emphasized because emergency responders, as well as people vulnerable to emergencies such as the elderly, are part of our stakeholders. 
Interviews #2 and #3 demonstrated that flooding can result in over 2 hour delays in response time, which must be fixed.

3. Design must be made of safe, PFA and BPA free materials due to health concerns.
The team cannot engineer a solution that creates new and additional safety concerns.
Environmental impact and safety/legal issues are 2 of the fundamental design criteria. According to this website: https://www.epa.gov/pfas/our-current-understanding-human-health-and-environmental-risks-pfas 
PFA’s and other harmful chemicals can be found in waste sites and in many items that typically clog drains. Thus, the team must develop a sustainable and safe system for disposing of the objects that collect 
in the device.

4.  Design must have a service life of at least 4  years, meaning it will not need to be replaced during this time*
● Based on patent research and survey data, existing solutions only provide temporary relief, must be replaced frequently, and don’t address the problem statement.
● Drain must withstand 35 mph (blizzard conditions) as the team aims to prevent the design being damaged by extreme weather.

5. If the design involves programming to notify stakeholders of flooding, then the device must warn the stakeholder when it has clogged within 1 second. *
The device is clogged when it detects that the rate of water entering is twice the rate of water exiting
Based on patents #1 and #5, this design must be secure and user friendly. It may not sell or share private information.

6. Design must be less expensive than alternative solutions, so the selling price will be between $100-$200 based on similar existing products.
● Firefighters have considered using products including boats according to interview #3 (Sgt. Ryan Scott), so the design must be more cost efficient than such solutions in order to convince stakeholders 
to choose the team’s solution.
The team found that current existing products typically cost between $200-300, and for a family of diverters, this price increases with the number of diverters. 
Furthermore, Interview #1 (Satyen Rawal) recommended the design be accessible to impoverished areas as they are most vulnerable to the problem.

7. Design must weigh no more than 20 pounds (which is roughly the weight of a large case of soda)  in order to minimize manual regulations and labor (disqualifying specification)
● Design must be relatively simplistic and reduce the amount of work the user has to do as most drains are not checked as often as they should be based on survey data.
● Current solutions cannot self regulate and require frequent check ups. Or to be picked up using heavy lifting or a forklift. Patents #3,4,7 are examples of this. 
Use of heavy machinery also puts the user at risk of injury and according to design specification #3, the team cannot engineer a solution that creates new and additional safety concerns

8. The installation time of the solution will be reduced by 15% relative to other existing solutions.
● Installation must be a quick process where labor is minimized, as alternative methods typically have long installation process that last between 1 hour to several days. 
Patents #1 and #5 are examples of designs with long installation processes, as these would require test runs and a soft launch. 
● Lower installation time fulfills design specification #7 which aims to minimize labor needed.

9. Design will not damage the current drain or property it is being placed on by scratching or creating in road damage.  (disqualifying specification)
● Design will prevent damaging the surface and components of the drain as the team cannot engineer a solution that creates new problems.
● Attachment must be sturdy and avoid metal on metal. If the solution involves chemical treatment, then the chemical reactions must not be extremely corrosive or unsafe as environmental impact is a 
fundamental design criteria.

